.TH g_dyecoupl 1 "Mon 2 Dec 2013" "" "GROMACS suite, VERSION 4.6.5"
.SH NAME
g_dyecoupl\ -\ extracts\ dye\ dynamics\ from\ trajectories

.B VERSION 4.6.5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3g_dyecoupl\fP
.BI "\-f" " traj.xtc "
.BI "\-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "\-ot" " rkappa.xvg "
.BI "\-oe" " insteff.xvg "
.BI "\-o" " rkappa.dat "
.BI "\-rhist" " rhist.xvg "
.BI "\-khist" " khist.xvg "
.BI "\-[no]h" ""
.BI "\-[no]version" ""
.BI "\-nice" " int "
.BI "\-b" " time "
.BI "\-e" " time "
.BI "\-tu" " enum "
.BI "\-[no]w" ""
.BI "\-xvg" " enum "
.BI "\-[no]pbcdist" ""
.BI "\-[no]norm" ""
.BI "\-bins" " int "
.BI "\-R0" " real "
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&This tool extracts dye dynamics from trajectory files.
\&Currently, R and kappa2 between dyes is extracted for (F)RET
\&simulations with assumed dipolar coupling as in the Foerster equation.
\&It further allows the calculation of R(t) and kappa2(t), R and
\&kappa2 histograms and averages, as well as the instantaneous FRET
\&efficiency E(t) for a specified Foerster radius R_0 (switch \fB \-R0\fR).
\&The input dyes have to be whole (see res and mol pbc options
\&in \fB trjconv\fR).
\&The dye transition dipole moment has to be defined by at least
\&a single atom pair, however multiple atom pairs can be provided 
\&in the index file. The distance R is calculated on the basis of
\&the COMs of the given atom pairs.
\&The \fB \-pbcdist\fR option calculates distances to the nearest periodic
\&image instead to the distance in the box. This works however only,for periodic boundaries in all 3 dimensions.
\&The \fB \-norm\fR option (area\-) normalizes the histograms.
.SH FILES
.BI "\-f" " traj.xtc" 
.B Input
 Trajectory: xtc trr trj gro g96 pdb cpt 

.BI "\-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input
 Index file 

.BI "\-ot" " rkappa.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-oe" " insteff.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-o" " rkappa.dat" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Generic data file 

.BI "\-rhist" " rhist.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.BI "\-khist" " khist.xvg" 
.B Output, Opt.
 xvgr/xmgr file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "\-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "\-[no]version"  "no    "
 Print version info and quit

.BI "\-nice"  " int" " 19" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "\-b"  " time" " 0     " 
 First frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "\-e"  " time" " 0     " 
 Last frame (ps) to read from trajectory

.BI "\-tu"  " enum" " ps" 
 Time unit: \fB fs\fR, \fB ps\fR, \fB ns\fR, \fB us\fR, \fB ms\fR or \fB s\fR

.BI "\-[no]w"  "no    "
 View output \fB .xvg\fR, \fB .xpm\fR, \fB .eps\fR and \fB .pdb\fR files

.BI "\-xvg"  " enum" " xmgrace" 
 xvg plot formatting: \fB xmgrace\fR, \fB xmgr\fR or \fB none\fR

.BI "\-[no]pbcdist"  "no    "
 Distance R based on PBC

.BI "\-[no]norm"  "no    "
 Normalize histograms

.BI "\-bins"  " int" " 50" 
  of histogram bins

.BI "\-R0"  " real" " \-1    " 
 Foerster radius including kappa2=2/3 in nm

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gromacs(7)

More information about \fBGROMACS\fR is available at <\fIhttp://www.gromacs.org/\fR>.
