.TH g_membed 1 "Mon 2 Dec 2013" "" "GROMACS suite, VERSION 4.6.5"
.SH NAME
g_membed\ -\ embeds\ a\ protein\ into\ a\ lipid\ bilayer

.B VERSION 4.6.5
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3g_membed\fP
.BI "\-f" " into_mem.tpr "
.BI "\-n" " index.ndx "
.BI "\-p" " topol.top "
.BI "\-o" " traj.trr "
.BI "\-x" " traj.xtc "
.BI "\-c" " membedded.gro "
.BI "\-e" " ener.edr "
.BI "\-dat" " membed.dat "
.BI "\-[no]h" ""
.BI "\-[no]version" ""
.BI "\-nice" " int "
.BI "\-xyinit" " real "
.BI "\-xyend" " real "
.BI "\-zinit" " real "
.BI "\-zend" " real "
.BI "\-nxy" " int "
.BI "\-nz" " int "
.BI "\-rad" " real "
.BI "\-pieces" " int "
.BI "\-[no]asymmetry" ""
.BI "\-ndiff" " int "
.BI "\-maxwarn" " int "
.BI "\-[no]start" ""
.BI "\-[no]v" ""
.BI "\-mdrun_path" " string "
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&\fB g_membed\fR embeds a membrane protein into an equilibrated lipid bilayer at the position
\&and orientation specified by the user.


\&SHORT MANUAL
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-

\&The user should merge the structure files of the protein and membrane (+solvent), creating a
\&single structure file with the protein overlapping the membrane at the desired position and
\&orientation. The box size is taken from the membrane structure file. The corresponding topology
\&files should also be merged. Consecutively, create a \fB .tpr\fR file (input for \fB g_membed\fR) from these files,with the following options included in the \fB .mdp\fR file.

\& \- \fB integrator      = md\fR

\& \- \fB energygrps      = Protein\fR (or other group that you want to insert)

\& \- \fB freezegrps      = Protein\fR

\& \- \fB freezedim       = Y Y Y\fR

\& \- \fB energygrp_excl  = Protein Protein\fR

\&The output is a structure file containing the protein embedded in the membrane. If a topology
\&file is provided, the number of lipid and 
\&solvent molecules will be updated to match the new structure file.

\&For a more extensive manual see Wolf et al, J Comp Chem 31 (2010) 2169\-2174, Appendix.


\&SHORT METHOD DESCRIPTION

\&\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-

\&1. The protein is resized around its center of mass by a factor \fB \-xy\fR in the xy\-plane
\&(the membrane plane) and a factor \fB \-z\fR in the \fI z\fR\-direction (if the size of the
\&protein in the z\-direction is the same or smaller than the width of the membrane, a
\&\fB \-z\fR value larger than 1 can prevent that the protein will be enveloped by the lipids).

\&2. All lipid and solvent molecules overlapping with the resized protein are removed. All
\&intraprotein interactions are turned off to prevent numerical issues for small values of \fB \-xy\fR
\& or \fB \-z\fR

\&3. One md step is performed.

\&4. The resize factor (\fB \-xy\fR or \fB \-z\fR) is incremented by a small amount ((1\-xy)/nxy or (1\-z)/nz) and the
\&protein is resized again around its center of mass. The resize factor for the xy\-plane
\&is incremented first. The resize factor for the z\-direction is not changed until the \fB \-xy\fR factor
\&is 1 (thus after \fB \-nxy\fR iterations).

\&5. Repeat step 3 and 4 until the protein reaches its original size (\fB \-nxy\fR + \fB \-nz\fR iterations).

\&For a more extensive method description see Wolf et al, J Comp Chem, 31 (2010) 2169\-2174.


\&NOTE
\-\-\-\-

\& \- Protein can be any molecule you want to insert in the membrane.

\& \- It is recommended to perform a short equilibration run after the embedding
\&(see Wolf et al, J Comp Chem 31 (2010) 2169\-2174), to re\-equilibrate the membrane. Clearly
\&protein equilibration might require longer.


.SH FILES
.BI "\-f" " into_mem.tpr" 
.B Input
 Run input file: tpr tpb tpa 

.BI "\-n" " index.ndx" 
.B Input, Opt.
 Index file 

.BI "\-p" " topol.top" 
.B In/Out, Opt.
 Topology file 

.BI "\-o" " traj.trr" 
.B Output
 Full precision trajectory: trr trj cpt 

.BI "\-x" " traj.xtc" 
.B Output, Opt.
 Compressed trajectory (portable xdr format) 

.BI "\-c" " membedded.gro" 
.B Output
 Structure file: gro g96 pdb etc. 

.BI "\-e" " ener.edr" 
.B Output
 Energy file 

.BI "\-dat" " membed.dat" 
.B Output
 Generic data file 

.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.BI "\-[no]h"  "no    "
 Print help info and quit

.BI "\-[no]version"  "no    "
 Print version info and quit

.BI "\-nice"  " int" " 0" 
 Set the nicelevel

.BI "\-xyinit"  " real" " 0.5   " 
 Resize factor for the protein in the xy dimension before starting embedding

.BI "\-xyend"  " real" " 1     " 
 Final resize factor in the xy dimension

.BI "\-zinit"  " real" " 1     " 
 Resize factor for the protein in the z dimension before starting embedding

.BI "\-zend"  " real" " 1     " 
 Final resize faction in the z dimension

.BI "\-nxy"  " int" " 1000" 
 Number of iteration for the xy dimension

.BI "\-nz"  " int" " 0" 
 Number of iterations for the z dimension

.BI "\-rad"  " real" " 0.22  " 
 Probe radius to check for overlap between the group to embed and the membrane

.BI "\-pieces"  " int" " 1" 
 Perform piecewise resize. Select parts of the group to insert and resize these with respect to their own geometrical center.

.BI "\-[no]asymmetry"  "no    "
 Allow asymmetric insertion, i.e. the number of lipids removed from the upper and lower leaflet will not be checked.

.BI "\-ndiff"  " int" " 0" 
 Number of lipids that will additionally be removed from the lower (negative number) or upper (positive number) membrane leaflet.

.BI "\-maxwarn"  " int" " 0" 
 Maximum number of warning allowed

.BI "\-[no]start"  "no    "
 Call mdrun with membed options

.BI "\-[no]v"  "no    "
 Be loud and noisy

.BI "\-mdrun_path"  " string" " " 
 Path to the mdrun executable compiled with this g_membed version

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gromacs(7)

More information about \fBGROMACS\fR is available at <\fIhttp://www.gromacs.org/\fR>.
